Copyright (C) 2014  Felipe Scarel

          Minitoo, version 1.0.0

This is top-level directory of the Minitoo program, an automated build system
based on Gentoo's Portage package management system to generate fully
customizable minimal systems, with special focus on reduced size and increased
security.

The program was written by Felipe Scarel to provide an automated method for
generating and testing operating system images to be used for specialized
purposes, such as client VMs or purpose-built ATM distributions. The AUTHORS
file in this directory provides more information, as well as contact
information. Of course, feature suggestions, bug reports and just a simple
thank-you are always welcome.

Minitoo is BSD-licensed, which means you can pretty much do anything you want
with the code, so as long as you give due credit. Check the LICENSE file in
this directory for the fine print.


* Outline

As mentioned above, Minitoo is an automated build system for Gentoo-based
operating systems. Its main purpose is to provide a framework for building
minimal systems for specialized purposed, with a strong emphasis on low
footprint, reduced storage size and increased security capabilities.

While Minitoo is very good at automating things, that doesn't mean it has an
easy learning curve: in fact, unless you only want to use features that are
readily available from the start, it's necessary to have a strong grasp on
Gentoo and Portage concepts, general Linux system initialization and
configuration, and some shell (Bash) programming. It's an excellent program for
power users, greatly speeding up the iterative process of building and testing
during specialized system development.

That's not to say you can't use the program if you're not a Linux "pro", not at
all! Minitoo has quite an extensive documentation, which can help if you're just
starting out. Here's a few resources that could come in handy:

  - The main 'README' file, that you're reading right now.

  - Minitoo's online help option, '-h', offers a lot of detail on each of the
    programs many options, and examples on how to use each one. It's definitely
    the best way to start exploring the program.

  - The main configuration file, 'etc/minitoo.conf', is very well documented and
    expands on the concepts presented by the online help. Since the software is
    fully customizable via configuration file, it's a good idea to read
    everything this file has to offer.

  - The 'systems/' directory contains a few examples of systems that can be
    built using Minitoo. All the configuration files are in place, and a few
    extra packages are created to show off a few of its capabilities. Try using
    the '-c' option to switch configuration directories and building one of
    these example systems for practice.

  - The 'etc/portage/README.portage' contains a few pointers on how to rebase
    your Portage configuration for usage within the Minitoo system. It's not a
    very good idea to use the host system Portage configuration for minimal
    system building, so make sure you take a look.

  - Finally, there's the 'etc/package.d/README.package' file, which is a 400+
    line documentation file explaining everything you need to know in order to
    successfully add a new package to the Minitoo build system. If you're an
    experienced user who wants to customize the system to your particular needs,
    this is the documentation you're looking for.

  - If nothing's going your way, you can always send an email to the 'AUTHORS'
    and ask for help. Don't be afraid to get in touch, it's always a pleasure to
    help.


* Portability notes

This program has been written specifically for the Gentoo Linux distribution and
its derivatives. The Portage package management system is assumed as available,
and is used extensively by Minitoo to provide its installation framework.
Attempting execution on other Linux distributions (e.g. Debian, Red Hat and
Slackware derivatives), as well as other UNIX systems (e.g. FreeBSD, OpenBSD,
NetBSD, Solaris, etc.) will not work.


* Files in this directory

  + AUTHORS
      List of authors of this software, with contact information.

  + bin/
      Directory containing executable programs pertaining to the package.

  + etc/
      Directory containing configuration files for the Minitoo build system,
      Portage and dracut configuration, as well as package installation
      instruction files.

  + lib/
      Directory containing helper scripts and libraries used by the programs
      located in the 'bin/' directory.

  + LICENSE
      Minitoo licensing information.

  + README
      This file.

  + releases/
      Only available from source code checkouts, not full release packages.
      Directory containing all stable version packages, up until the most recent
      release.

  + systems/
      Directory containing examples of systems to be built using Minitoo.
      Mostly, this encompasses custom configuration files, system-specific
      package installation files and deploy directories, and customized Portage
      configuration. Can be used as reference for building new systems.

  + TODO
      List of unimplemented features that are planned for future versions.

  + var/
      Directory containing variable runtime data and the default deploy and
      built directories, unless specified otherwise.
